#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass amsbook
\options intoc,bibliography=totoc,index=totoc,BCOR10mm,captions=tableheading,titlepage,fleqn
\use_default_options true
\master diss.lyx
\begin_removed_modules
figs-within-sections
\end_removed_modules
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
customHeadersFooters
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman lmodern
\font_sans lmss
\font_typewriter lmtt
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Your title"
\pdf_author "Your name"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 2
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\branch NoChildDocument
\selected 0
\filename_suffix 0
\color #ff0000
\end_branch
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Introduction} 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
adds table of contents entry
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aim of this dissertation is to identify effective methods on extending
 teaching of conjectures and proofs of Euclidean geometry theorems in secondary
 schools by utilizing computers, and to develop corresponding technology
 and software tools by enhancing existing dynamic geometry systems.
 Based upon analysis of the possible aims of mathematics teaching and an
 overview of the existing software tools and the theory,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
a general report highlights areas where computers can indeed help in the
 teaching process, and areas of typical dangers of abuse of computers are
 also presented,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
an enhancement of the dynamic mathematics software GeoGebra is introduced
 to give more support for teachers and students concerning proofs,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
an analysis of an effective mathematical method in theorem proving for the
 Euclidean geometry is introduced in an effort to help non-expert readers
 to learn the basics of the applied mathematical algorithms,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
some typical classroom situations are shown by utilizing GeoGebra to support
 teaching of certain topics in Euclidean geometry.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The results in this dissertation can be considered as a prototype, but they
 are elaborated enough to be integrated in classroom use already and also
 for developing it further to provide a wider range of use for teaching
 of proofs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Objectives of the thesis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this dissertation literature about technology integration into mathematics
 classrooms for teaching of proofs is reviewed, and existing dynamic geometry
 and automated theorem proving software packages are investigated.
 The objective of this thesis is to answer the following research questions:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Can computers give essential help in learning elementary geometry proofs?
 What are the important properties of such a computer based educational
 tool?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
How can we address typical difficulties in the software implementation of
 an appropriate educational tool, in particular
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
the design of the user interface and the interaction between the user and
 the software, 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
the applied algorithms and the implementation issues?
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
What type of computer aided exercises can be applied in classroom use in
 teaching of elementary geometry proofs at secondary level?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Structure of the thesis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Chapter 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter 1 deals with the topic mathematics and proofs from an educational
 perspective.
 It addresses the first question of the objectives of the thesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Section 1.1 a short overview is shown about the main trends in proofs
 in mathematics education in the twentieth century, and the influence of
 computers is discussed.
 Then the teacher's role is in focus.
 The main point of Section 1.1 is to analyze the role of Euclidean geometry
 in conjecturing and proving, which are empowered today by utilizing computer
 software as well.
 Since computers are already able to prove geometric theorems automatically,
 it is a natural question whether we are ready to support computer aided
 proof teaching as well.
 Finally, de Villiers' concept on the role of reasoning is discussed by
 focusing on possible ways to utilize computers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 1.2 depicts the recent situation of computer based proving in mathematics
 education for elementary geometry.
 Several computer software packages are reviewed concerning their strengths
 and weaknesses.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Chapter 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Chapter 2 a new implementation of a computer based educational proving
 tool is demonstrated as a submodule of the open dynamic geometry software
 
\emph on
GeoGebra
\emph default
.
 This chapter focuses on understanding the mathematical point of view, and
 also discusses questions concerning the implementation.
 It deals with the second question of the objectives of this thesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After an overview in Section 2.1, Section 2.2 describes the need of a general
 portfolio prover to harness the variety of the applicable mathematical
 methods and to obtain an implementation built upon the large experience
 of an international research community of this field.
 Two new GeoGebra commands are introduced and explained, and their integration
 into the graphical user interface.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 2.3 is a detailed explanation of a popularly used algebraic geometry
 method (
\emph on
the Gröbner basis method
\emph default
), emphasizing its basics by the terms of undergraduate level mathematics.
 An enhanced algorithm is discussed for getting sufficient conditions automatica
lly inside GeoGebra.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 2.4 is a summary of a recent method related to the algebraic geometry
 method (
\emph on
Recio's exact check method
\emph default
), but even more effective in some simple situations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 2.5 gives a short overview about the implementation created for extending
 the GeoGebra application with a theorem proving subsystem.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, Section 2.6 is an evaluation of the implementation by machine generated
 statistics on some typical geometry problems solved by GeoGebra.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Chapter 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter 3 addresses the third question of the objectives of this thesis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 3.1 is a collection of GeoGebra materials using the new technologies
 implemented for GeoGebra.
 This collection can be directly used in secondary school education to introduce
 teaching proofs.
 The focus is on the improved 
\emph on
Relation Tool
\emph default
 which is the highest level entry point in GeoGebra's user interface for
 the novel capabilities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section 3.2 summarizes other possible applications of the implementation
 and describes some future plans for further improvements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Branch NoChildDocument
status collapsed

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "thesisExample"
options "alpha"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset nomencl_print
LatexCommand printnomenclature
set_width "custom"
width "2.5cm"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
